815 Phil. 379   FIRST DIVISION  G.R. No. 218592, August 02, 2017  CHRISTOPHER FIANZA A.K.A. "TOPEL," PETITIONER, VS. PEOPLE OF THE PHILIPPINES, RESPONDENT. 

D E C I S I O N PERLAS-BERNABE, J.: Assailed in this petition for review on certiorari[1] are the Decision[2] dated November 24, 2014 and the Resolution[3] dated May 29, 2015 of the Court of Appeals (CA) in CA-G.R. CR No. 35293, which upheld the Decision[4] dated September 6, 2012 of the Regional Trial Court of Tayug, Pangasinan, Branch 52 (RTC) in Criminal Case Nos. T-5144 and T-5145, finding petitioner Christopher Fianza a.k.a. "Topel" (Fianza) guilty beyond reasonable doubt of two (2) counts of violation of Section 5 (b),[5] Article III of Republic Act No. (RA) 7610,[6] otherwise known as the "Special Protection of Children Against Abuse, Exploitation and Discrimination Act." The Facts After AAA was finished with the laundry, Fianza asked her to go with him to the kamalig. Thereat, they proceeded to the second floor where Fianza removed his pants and briefs, lied down, and ordered AAA to hold his penis and masturbate him. After ejaculating, Fianza put on his clothes, and gave P20.00 to AAA who, thereafter, went home. [11] Thereat, Fianza again removed his pants and briefs, lied down, and ordered AAA to fondle his penis. After the deed, he gave P20.00 to AAA who, thereafter, went home. [12] After the second incident, AAA related the matter to her cousin, CCC,[13] who, in turn, told BBB,[14] AAA's mother, who reported the matter to the police. For his part, Fianza interposed the defense of denial and alibi. He averred that in July 2010, he went to Sapinit to gamble all night, and went to his parents' house the following morning to sleep before going home to Andalasi. [16] As for the November 30, 2010 incident, he maintained that he was in Andalasi drinking with his friends as he had just sold a carabao. The next day, he went to get the carabao that he sold, and bought more liquor. [17] In a Decision[18] dated September 6, 2012, the RTC found Fianza guilty beyond reasonable doubt of two (2) counts of violation of Section 5 (b), Article III of RA 7610, and sentenced him to suffer the penalty of imprisonment for an indeterminate period of twelve (12) years and one (1) day of reclusion temporal minimum, as minimum, to fourteen (14) years, eight (8) months and one (1) day of reclusion temporal medium, as maximum, and ordered him to pay AAA the amount of P30,000.00 as moral damages for each count. [21] On the other hand, it declared that Fianza's actions showed that he took advantage of AAA's naivete and innocence to satisfy his lewd designs. The Court's Ruling - Children, whether male or female, who for money, profit, or any other consideration or due to the coercion or influence of any adult, syndicate or group, indulge in sexual intercourse or lascivious conduct, are deemed to be children exploited in prostitution and other sexual abuse. Case law further clarifies that lascivious conduct under the coercion or influence of any adult exists when there is some form of compulsion equivalent to intimidation which subdues the free exercise of the offended party's free will. In Malto v. People,[35] the Court explained: The State, as parens patriae, is under the obligation to minimize the risk of harm to those who, because of their minority, are as yet unable to take care of themselves fully. The harm which results from a child's bad decision in a sexual encounter may be infinitely more damaging to her than a bad business deal. The age disparity between them clearly placed Fianza in a stronger position over AAA which enabled him to wield his will on the latter. - A complaint or information is sufficient if it states the name of the accused; the designation of the offense given by the statute; the acts or omissions complained of as constituting the offense; the name of the offended party; the approximate date of the commission of the offense; and the place where the offense was committed. In this case, Fianza had been fully apprised of the charges against him since the Informations stated the approximate date of the commission of the offense to be "sometime during the month of July 2010." [46] [I]t is not necessary that the force and intimidation employed in accomplishing it be so great or of such character as could not be resisted. WHEREFORE, the petition is DENIED. The Decision dated November 24, 2014 and the Resolution dated May 29, 2015 of the Court of Appeals in CA-G.R. CR No. 35293 are hereby SET ASIDE and a new one is entered finding petitioner Christopher Fianza a.k.a. "Topel" (Fianza) GUILTY beyond reasonable doubt of two (2) counts of Acts of Lasciviousness under Article 336 of the Revised Penal Code in relation to Section 5 (b), Article III of Republic Act No. 7610. SO ORDERED.