781 Phil. 737   FIRST DIVISION  G.R. No. 209180, February 24, 2016  REPUBLIC OF PHILIPPINES, THE PETITIONER, VS. REGHIS M. ROMERO II AND OLIVIA LAGMAN ROMERO, RESPONDENTS.   G.R. NO. 209253]   OLIVIA LAGMAN ROMERO, PETITIONER, VS. REGHIS M. ROMERO II, RESPONDENT. 

Since then, Reghis developed a closeness with Olivia's family, especially with the latter's parents who tried to play matchmakers for Reghis and Olivia. In the desire to please Olivia's parents, Reghis courted Olivia and, eventually, they became sweethearts. [8] Reghis was still a student at the time, determined to finish his studies and provide for the financial needs of his siblings and parents. Thus, less than a year into their relationship, Reghis tried to break-up with Olivia because he felt that her demanding attitude would prevent him from reaching his personal and family goals. Reghis declined and, instead, made arrangements with his friends so that Olivia could sleep in a female dormitory. As Olivia's parents had treated him with nothing but kindness, Reghis agreed. [9] The couple experienced a turbulent and tumultuous marriage, often having violent fights and jealous fits. They became even more estranged when Reghis secured a job as a medical representative and became engrossed in his career and focused on supporting his parents and siblings. [10] The RTC Ruling [26] [30] [36] It pointed out that Reghis' condition was not shown to have existed before their marriage and that the same is incurable. [40] [48] Any attempt to regulate their lifestyle would go into the realm of their right to privacy and would raise serious constitutional questions. To the Court's mind, this is a glaring deficiency that should have prompted the RTC and the CA to be more circumspect and critical in the assessment and appreciation of Dr. Basilio's testimony. [56] Article 36 of the Family Code must not be confused with a divorce law that cuts the marital bond at the time the grounds for divorce manifest themselves;[57] rather, it must be limited to cases where there is a downright incapacity or inability to assume and fulfill the basic marital obligations, not a mere refusal, neglect or difficulty, much less, ill will, on the part of the errant spouse. The Decision dated March 21, 2013 and the Resolution dated September 12, 2013 of the Court of Appeals in CA-G.R. CV No. 94337 are hereby REVERSED and SET ASIDE. SO ORDERED.