 SECOND DIVISION  G.R. No. 248264, July 27, 2020  FREDIEROSE TAMBOA Y LADAY, PETITIONER, VS. PEOPLE OF THE PHILIPPINES, RESPONDENT. 

The instant case stemmed from an Information[6] filed before the RTC charging petitioner with the crime of Illegal Sale of Dangerous Drugs, defined and penalized under Section 5, Article II of RA 9165. The prosecution alleged that in the morning of June 10, 2015, acting on information received from a confidential informant, members of the Philippine National Police (PNP) stationed in Claveria, Cagayan successfully conducted a buy-bust operation against petitioner at an area fronting the Iglesia ni Cristo Church in Centro Uno, Claveria, Cagayan, during which, a heat-sealed plastic sachet containing 0.137 gram of white crystalline substance was recovered from the latter's possession. In defense, petitioner denied the accusations against her, claiming instead that, at the time of the alleged incident, she was riding her motorcycle near Centro Uno, Claveria, Cagayan when a tricycle with three (3) men on board hit her vehicle, causing her to fall on the ground. Meanwhile, it found petitioner's defenses of denial and frame-up untenable for lack of evidence. In a Resolution[16] dated February 15, 2018, the CA dismissed the appeal for failure to file an appellant's brief pursuant to Section 8,[17] Rule 124 of the Rules of Court (Rules). On March 15, 2018, the RTC Decision became final and executory, and in a Resolution[18] dated August 3, 2018, the CA ordered the issuance of an Entry of Judgment. [20] Petitioner prayed for the relaxation of procedural rules and for her appeal to be reinstated and given due course, explaining that the failure to file an appellant's brief was due to the gross negligence of her previous counsel, Atty. Amelito A. Ruiz (Atty. Ruiz), who unjustifiably failed to file the said pleading despite repeatedly moving for extension of time to do so. In a Resolution[21] dated February 7, 2019, the CA denied the motion for lack of merit, holding that there was no persuasive reason to liberally apply the procedural rules on appeal. Dismissal of appeal for abandonment or failure to prosecute. Section 1. x x x x [31] While the Court cannot fault the CA for upholding procedural rules and acknowledges its adherence thereto, We cannot countenance the incarceration of an accused without the underlying conviction being thoroughly reviewed on account of the negligence of counsel. At the very least, if the CA would eventually find that petitioner's appeal should be denied and her conviction must be affirmed, it should be based on a full consideration of the merits of her appeal and not for reasons anchored on technicalities. Hence, the Court deems it proper to relax the technical rules of procedure in order to afford petitioner the fullest opportunity to establish the merits of her appeal. Accordingly, the Entry of Judgment made in this case should be recalled and the case be remanded to the CA for resolution of the appeal on its merits. Therefore, in accordance with Section 13,[33] Rule 139-B of the Rules, the Court finds it proper to furnish the Office of the Bar Confidant a copy of this Decision for the initiation of appropriate disciplinary proceedings against Atty. Ruiz. The Resolutions dated February 7, 2019 and July 8, 2019 of the Court of Appeals (CA) in CA-G.R. CR-HC No. 09062 are hereby REVERSED and SET ASIDE, and the Entry of Judgment dated March 15, 2018 is RECALLED. SO ORDERED.