714 Phil. 360   SECOND DIVISION  G.R. No. 196741, July 17, 2013  PHILIPPINE TOURISM AUTHORITY (Now known AS TOURISM INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENTERPRISE ZONE AUTHORITY), PETITIONER, VS. MARCOSA A. SABANDAL-HERZENSTIEL, PEDRO TAPALES, LUIS TAPALES, AND ROMEO TAPALES, RESPONDENTS. 

Petitioner made demands to vacate, the last of which was through a letter[5] dated January 5, 1998, which respondents ignored, prompting the filing of a forcible entry complaint[6] against them before the 12th Municipal Circuit Trial Court of Moalboal-Alcantara-Badian-Alegria, Cebu (MCTC), docketed as Civil Case No. 118, on March 18, 1998. In their Answer with Counterclaim, the Tapaleses acknowledged that the subject property had already been sold by its administrator, Josefina Abrenica, to Tri-Island. [8] Notwithstanding the sale, they remained in actual and physical possession of the subject property and even introduced improvements thereon. Consequently, absent any proof of prior possession on the part of petitioner, they claimed that the forcible entry complaint must necessarily be dismissed. The MCTC Ruling [11] In contrast, respondents failed to substantiate their claim of ownership and possession. [12] On the other hand, Sabandal-Herzenstiel never claimed to be the owner of the same and even acknowledged petitioner's ownership when she offered to buy back the land. [13] The RTC Ruling On the contrary, they even admitted in their answer to the complaint that petitioner exercised dominion over the same by instituting caretakers and leasing portions thereof to third persons. [25] Thus, finding petitioner's assertion to be well-founded, the MCTC properly adjudged petitioner to have prior possession over the subject property as against Sabandal-Herzenstiel, who never claimed ownership or possession thereof. Petitioner's supposed failure to describe in detail the manner of respondents' entry into the subject property is inconsequential. [27] Jurisprudence states that proving the fact of unlawful entry and the exclusion of the lawful possessor – as petitioner had sufficiently demonstrated – would necessarily imply the use of force. As held in Estel v. Heirs of Recaredo P. Diego, Sr. x x x [T]he foundation of a possessory action is really the forcible exclusion of the original possessor by a person who has entered without right. Accordingly, the CA's ruling on the merits must perforce be reversed and set aside. WHEREFORE, the petition is GRANTED. SO ORDERED.