766 Phil. 519   FIRST DIVISION  G.R. No. 211649, August 12, 2015  AQA GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION, INC., PETITIONER, VS. PLANTERS DEVELOPMENT BANK, RESPONDENT.  G.R. No. 211742]  JE-AN SUPREME BUILDERS AND SALES CORPORATION, PETITIONER, VS. PLANTERS DEVELOPMENT BANK, RESPONDENT. 

KTC defaulted in the payment of its loan, constraining Plantersbank to extra­ judicially foreclose the mortgaged properties[7] and, in the process, emerged as the highest bidder in the public auction sale held on May 5, 2010. [8] KTC likewise failed to redeem the subject properties, which led to the cancellation of TCT Nos. 11057-R to 11075-R,[9] and the issuance of TCT Nos. 012-2011000149 to 012-2011000167[10] in the name of Plantersbank. AQA filed a Manifestation and Motion[14] before the RTC, seeking leave of court to intervene in the case and to be excluded from the implementation of the writ of possession, claiming that its possession: (a) was adverse to that of KTC; and (b) stemmed from a ten (10) year contract of lease[15] commencing on March 10, 2009, with petitioner Je-an Supreme Builders and Sales Corporation (Je-An), which had bought the subject property from Little Giant Realty Corporation (Little Giant), the registered owner of the subject properties. Plantersbank opposed[19] AQA's motion, contending that AQA cannot be considered a third party possessing the subject properties adversely against KTC because the latter derived its right from Je-An through a Deed of Assignment[20] of the subject properties dated February 24, 2003 (February 24, 2003 Deed of Assignment) executed by its representative, Antonio Q. Achurra, Jr. AQA filed its Reply,[22] maintaining that its right to possess the subject properties did not come from KTC but from Je-An. It held that Plantersbank's proper recourse is to file a separate action questioning their possession. It then elevated the matter to the CA through a petition for certiorari[27] under Rule 65 of the Rules of Court (Rules). The CA Ruling Thus, where a parcel of land levied upon on execution is occupied by a party other than a judgment debtor, the procedure is for the court to order a hearing to determine the nature of said adverse possession. In the first place, Je-An's claimed ownership over the subject properties is based on the January 15, 2003 Contract to Sell,[42] which is legally insufficient to transfer title in its favor absent a deed of conveyance duly executed by the vendor, Little Giant, and, at most, affords it a mere inchoate right over the said properties. In the present case, AQA's unregistered lease with Je-An is, thus, not binding on Plantersbank. Consequently, Je-An and AQA cannot be considered third parties holding the subject properties adversely to KTC, the defaulting debtor­ mortgagor. It is founded on the right of ownership. Nonetheless, the Court would like to take exception to the CA's ruling, limiting the remedies of the adverse third party to vindicate his claim of ownership and/or possession over the foreclosed property to a terceria and an independent separate action once a writ of possession had already been issued, as in this case. Unquestionably, the RTC has a general supervisory control over the entire execution process, and such authority carries with it the right to determine every question which may be invariably involved in the execution, and ensure that it is enforcing its judgment only against properties irrefutably belonging to the judgment debtor. [59] However, in such instances, the RTC does not and cannot pass upon the question of title to the property, with any character of finality, and can treat of the matter only as may be necessary to decide the question of whether or not the person in possession holds the property adversely to the judgment obligor. In sum, while the Court finds the CA to have erred in ruling that the RTC was not clothed with the supervisory authority to determine the nature of the possession of Je-An and AQA, it correctly ruled against the propriety of staying the implementation of the writ of possession against them. WHEREFORE, the petitions are DENIED. The Decision dated July 18, 2013 and the Resolution dated March 10, 2014 of the Court of Appeals in CA-GR. SP No. 127219 are hereby AFFIRMED. SO ORDERED.