 THIRD DIVISION  G.R. No. 220889, July 05, 2017  PEOPLE OF THE PHILIPPINES, PLAINTIFF-APPELLEE, VS. MARLON BELMONTE Y SUMAGIT, MARVIN BELMONTE Y SUMAGIT, ENRILE GABAY Y DELA TORRE A.K.A "PUNO", AND NOEL BAAC Y BERGULA, ACCUSED,   MARLON BELMONTE Y SUMAGIT, ACCUSED-APPELLANT. 

DECISION TIJAM, J.: Accused-appellant Marlon Belmonte y Sumagit assails the Decision[1] dated April 22, 2014 of the Court of Appeals (CA) in CA-G.R. CR-HC No. 05774, affirming his conviction for Robbery with Rape in Criminal Case No. 135982-H. Accused-appellant and his co-accused, namely, Marvin Belmonte (Marvin), Enrile Gabay (Enrile), and Noel Baac (Noel) were charged with Robbery with Rape in an Information dated September 3, 2007 that reads: The Prosecution, through the undersigned Public Prosecutor, charges Marlon Belmonte y Sumagit, Marvin Belmonte y Sumagit and Enrile Gabay y Dela Torre @ "Puno" with the crime of robbery with rape, committed as follows: On or about September 1, 2007, in Pasig City and within the jurisdiction of this Honorable Court, the above accused, armed with a gun, conspiring and confederating together with one Noel Baac who is still at-large and all of them mutually helping and aiding one another, with intent to gain and by means of force, violence and intimidation, did then and there willfully, unlawfully and feloniously take, steal, and divest from complainants the following, to wit: x x x x x x x [A]nd on the occasion thereof said Noel Baac, by means of force, threats and intimidation and with the use of a gun, willfully, unlawfully, and feloniously, have carnal knowledge with AAA,[2] against her will and consent, which is aggravated by the circumstances of nighttime and dwelling, to the damage and prejudice of the said victim. [3] However, Noel remained at large. [4] [5] At around 2:00 a.m. of September 1, 2007, Jolly left the group and was followed by Enrile, but the latter soon returned to the party and was accompanied by accused-appellant and his brother Marvin, and Noel. Armed with guns and a knife,[6] the three men approached and suddenly boxed Enrile, then tied the hands of all the persons inside the house and ordered them to lie down on the floor as they took their personal belongings. Meanwhile, the maids of spouses Teodora and Robert, namely, AAA and Rhea Brioso, were awakened inside their quarters by the presence of two men, later identified as accused-appellant and Noel. Upon Noel's order, AAA was left inside the room. Noel immediately locked the door, and at gunpoint, ordered AAA to remove her pants. He told AAA to lie down, then he inserted his penis into her vagina. [7] Thereafter, Noel and Marvin entered the room of spouses Teodora and Robert through the window. At gunpoint, Noel and Marvin ordered the spouses to lie on the bed while they searched the room; then they took away some pieces of jewelry, laptop, ATM card, cash amounting to PhP 6,700 and 23 pieces of Yen. For his part, Enrile, testified that, at around 1:00 a.m. of September 1, 2007, he and other bystanders were in front of a. bakery store, about four streets away from Hiroshi's house when Jolly arrived to buy one and a half cases of beer. He helped Jolly carry the cases of beer upon the latter's request, and when they arrived at Hiroshi's house, he was asked to join in the drinking session. Whether or not accused-appellant's guilt was proven beyond reasonable doubt. : In view hereof, the CA's award of civil indemnity in the amount of PhP 75,000, moral damages in the amount of PhP 75,000, and exemplary damages in the amount of PhP 30,000 to AAA, must be modified pursuant to the guidelines laid down in People v. Jugueta,[24] to wit: Belmonte, actual damages to Hiroshi and spouses Teodora and Robert must stand. WHEREFORE, the instant appeal is DISMISSED. Interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum is imposed on all the damages awarded in this case from date of finality of this Decision until fully paid. SO ORDERED.