TITLE

G.R. No. 211649, August 12, 2015
AQA GLOBAL CONSTRUCTION, INC., PETITIONER, VS. PLANTERS DEVELOPMENT BANK, RESPONDENT.


NATURE OF THE CASE

Assailed in these consolidated petitions for review on certiorari are the Decision dated July 18, 2013 and the Resolution dated March 10, 2014 of the Court of Appeals (CA) in CA-G.R. SP No. 127219, which set aside the Orders dated July 16, 2012 and September 25, 2012 issued by the Regional Trial Court of Pasig City, Branch 160 (RTC) in LRC Case No. R-7509, excluding the petitioners in these cases from the implementation of the writ of possession in favor of respondent Planters Development Bank (Plantersbank).


FACTS

•  KTC likewise failed to redeem the subject properties, which led to the cancellation of TCT Nos. 11057-R to 11075-R, and the issuance of TCT Nos. 012-2011000149 to 012-2011000167 in the name of Plantersbank.

• Thereafter, Plantersbank applied for a writ of possession, which was granted by the RTC in a Decision dated January 6, 2012 (January 6, 2012 Decision).

• The corresponding writ of possession was issued on February 2, 2012 and served, together with the Notice to Vacate and the January 6, 2012 Decision, to petitioner AQA Global Construction Inc. (AQA), which occupied the subject properties at the time.

• AQA filed a Manifestation and Motion before the RTC, seeking leave of court to intervene in the case and to be excluded from the implementation of the writ of possession, claiming that its possession: (a) was adverse to that of KTC; and (b) stemmed from a ten (10) year contract of lease commencing on March 10, 2009, with petitioner Je-an Supreme Builders and Sales Corporation (Je-An), which had bought the subject property from Little Giant Realty Corporation (Little Giant), the registered owner of the subject properties.

• On the other hand, Je-An filed an Affidavit of Third Party Claim to stay the implementation of the writ of possession, alleging that its right to possess the subject properties was: (a) separate and distinct from that of KTC; and (b) derived from a Contract to Sell dated January 15, 2003 (January 15, 2003 Contract to Sell) executed by Little Giant.

• Plantersbank further averred that the lease between Je-An and AQA cannot bind it since the same was not registered and annotated on the titles over the subject properties.

• It further averred that KTC has no right over the subject properties considering the subsequent rescission of the February 24, 2003 Deed of Assignment by Little Giant and KTC.

• In a Decision dated July 18, 2013, the CA ruled that the RTC gravely abused its discretion in staying the implementation of the writ of possession against AQA and Je-An.

• It held that when a writ of possession had already been issued, the adverse third party seeking to vindicate its claim of ownership and/or possession over the foreclosed properties may avail of the cumulative remedies of: (a) terceria to determine whether the sheriff has rightly or wrongly taken hold of the property not belonging to the judgment debtor or obligor; and (b) an independent separate action.

•  The CA further held that third parties cannot intervene in an ex parte petition for the issuance of a writ of possession.

• Undaunted, AQA and Je-An separately moved for reconsideration which were, however, denied in a Resolution dated March 10, 2014; hence, the instant petitions.




ISSUES

The Issue Before the Court

The essential issue for the Court's resolution is whether or not the CA erred in finding that the RTC gravely abused its discretion in staying the implementation of the writ of possession against AQA and Je-An.




RULING

The petition lacks merit.

Thirdly, it appears that at the time KTC executed the Mortgage in favor ofPlantersbank on February 28, 2003, titles over the subject properties were already in its name sans any annotation of the January 15, 2003 Contract to Sell in favor of Je-An.

Clearly, the stay of the implementation of the writ of possession prayed for by Je-An on the basis of such inchoate right would becloud the integrity and derogate the indefeasibility of the torrens title issued in favor of Plantersbank as a confirmed owner, which the Court cannot allow.

The Court simply cannot subscribe to AQA's claim that its status as a tenant renders its possession adverse to that of Plantersbank, in consonance with the ruling in China Bank v. Spouses Lozada.

 In the said case, the "tenant" contemplated clearly refers to an "agricultural tenant" who: (a) possesses the property in his own right; and (b) is protected by Presidential Decree (PO) No. 1038 wherein a tenant­tiller of private agricultural lands devoted to crops other than rice and/or com shall not be removed, ejected, ousted or excluded from his farmholding unless directed by a final decision or order of the court for causes provided by law, which does not include sale of the land - and not to a "civil law tenant."

It bears to emphasize that a civil law lease is a mere personal right.

Resultantly, the general rule, and not the exception, applies to the instant petitions, rendering it the mandatory and ministerial duty of the RTC to issue the writ of possession in favor of Plantersbank as the confirmed owner, and of the Sheriff to implement the said writ.

As this Court ruled in St. Dominic Corp.

v. Intermediate Appellate Court:

The right of the respondent to the possession of the property is clearly unassailable.

As the purchaser of the properties in the foreclosure sale, and to which the respective titles thereto have already been issued, the petitioner's rights over the property has become absolute, vesting upon it the right of possession of the property which the court must aid in affecting its delivery.

This means, that the purchaser is entitled to go immediately upon the real property, and that it is the sheriff's inescapable duty to place him in such possession.

Nonetheless, the Court would like to take exception to the CA's ruling, limiting the remedies of the adverse third party to vindicate his claim of ownership and/or possession over the foreclosed property to a terceria and an independent separate action once a writ of possession had already been issued, as in this case.

If the claimant's proofs do not persuade the court of the validity of his title or right of possession thereto, the claim will be denied.

In sum, while the Court finds the CA to have erred in ruling that the RTC was not clothed with the supervisory authority to determine the nature of the possession of Je-An and AQA, it correctly ruled against the propriety of staying the implementation of the writ of possession against them.

The Decision dated July 18, 2013 and the Resolution dated March 10, 2014 of the Court of Appeals in CA-GR. SP No. 127219 are hereby AFFIRMED.

WHEREFORE, the petitions are DENIED.

