TITLE

G.R. No. 248264, July 27, 2020
FREDIEROSE TAMBOA Y LADAY, PETITIONER, VS. PEOPLE OF THE PHILIPPINES, RESPONDENT.


NATURE OF THE CASE

Assailed in this petition for review on certiorari are the Resolutions dated February 7, 2019 and July 8, 2019 of the Court of Appeals (CA) in CA-G.R. CR-HC No. 09062 which denied the motion of petitioner Fredierose Tamboa y Laday (petitioner) to recall entry of judgment and to reinstate her appeal seeking review of the Judgment dated January 24, 2017 of the Regional Trial Court of Sanchez Mira, Cagayan, Branch 12 (RTC) in Criminal Case No. 3712-S-5, finding her guilty beyond reasonable doubt of violation of Section 5, Article II of Republic Act No. (RA) 9165, otherwise known as the "Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002."


FACTS

• Meanwhile, it found petitioner's defenses of denial and frame-up untenable for lack of evidence.

• Aggrieved, petitioner appealed to the Court of Appeals (CA).

• In a Resolution dated February 15, 2018, the CA dismissed the appeal for failure to file an appellant's brief pursuant to Section 8, Rule 124 of the Rules of Court (Rules).

• The CA found that, despite the grant of several motions for extension of time to file the said pleading, petitioner still failed to file the same.

• On March 15, 2018, the RTC Decision became final and executory, and in a Resolution dated August 3, 2018, the CA ordered the issuance of an Entry of Judgment.

•  Petitioner prayed for the relaxation of procedural rules and for her appeal to be reinstated and given due course, explaining that the failure to file an appellant's brief was due to the gross negligence of her previous counsel, Atty. Amelito A. Ruiz (Atty. Ruiz), who unjustifiably failed to file the said pleading despite repeatedly moving for extension of time to do so.

• Undaunted, petitioner moved for reconsideration, which was denied in a Resolution dated July 8, 2019.

• Hence, the instant petition.




ISSUES

The Issue Before the Court

The issue for the Court's resolution is whether or not the CA correctly dismissed petitioner's appeal based on procedural grounds.




RULING

The petition is meritorious.

However, "[the] Court has relaxed this rule in order to serve substantial justice considering (a) matters of life, liberty, honor or property, (b) the existence of special or compelling circumstances, (c) the merits of the case, (d) a cause not entirely attributable to the fault or negligence of the party favored by the suspension of the rules, [and] (e) a lack of any showing that the review sought is merely frivolous and dilatory x x x," all of which obtain in the instant case.

Guided by the foregoing considerations, the Court finds it proper to recall the Entry of Judgment dated March 15, 2018 and reinstate petitioner's appeal, as will be explained hereunder.

" "Corollarily, the rule, which states that the mistakes of counsel bind the client, may not be strictly followed where observance of it would result in the outright deprivation of the client's liberty or property, or where the interest of justice so requires.

Accordingly, the Entry of Judgment made in this case should be recalled and the case be remanded to the CA for resolution of the appeal on its merits.

Therefore, in accordance with Section 13, Rule 139-B of the Rules, the Court finds it proper to furnish the Office of the Bar Confidant a copy of this Decision for the initiation of appropriate disciplinary proceedings against Atty. Ruiz.

WHEREFORE, the petition is GRANTED.

The Resolutions dated February 7, 2019 and July 8, 2019 of the Court of Appeals (CA) in CA-G.R. CR-HC No. 09062 are hereby REVERSED and SET ASIDE, and the Entry of Judgment dated March 15, 2018 is RECALLED.

The case is REMANDED to the CA for resolution of the appeal on its merits.

Petitioner is DIRECTED to file her appellant's brief therewith within a non-extendible period of thirty (30) days from receipt of this Decision.

Let a copy of this Decision be furnished the Office of the Bar Confidant for the initiation of appropriate disciplinary proceedings against Atty. Amelito A. Ruiz.

