TITLE

G.R. No. 191970, April 24, 2012
ROMMEL APOLINARIO JALOSJOS, PETITIONER, VS. THE COMMISSION ON ELECTIONS AND DAN ERASMO, SR., RESPONDENTS.


NATURE OF THE CASE

This case is about the proof required to establish the domicile of a reinstated Filipino citizen who seeks election as governor of a province.


FACTS

•  On September 1, 2009 he renounced his Australian citizenship, executing a sworn renunciation of the same in compliance with Republic Act (R.A.) 9225.

• The RTC decision became final and executory.

• On November 28, 2009 Jalosjos filed his Certificate of Candidacy (COC) for Governor of Zamboanga Sibugay Province for the May 10, 2010 elections.

• Acting on Jalosjos' prayer for the issuance of a temporary restraining order, the Court resolved on May 7, 2010 to issue a status quo ante order, enjoining the COMELEC from enforcing its February 11, 2010 decision pending further orders.

• Meanwhile, Jolosjos won the election and was proclaimed winner of the 2010 gubernatorial race in the Province of Zamboanga Sibugay.




ISSUES

The sole issue presented in this case is whether or not the COMELEC acted with grave abuse of discretion amounting to lack or excess of jurisdiction in ruling that Jalosjos failed to present ample proof of a bona fide intention to establish his domicile in Ipil, Zamboanga Sibugay.




RULING

The Local Government Code requires a candidate seeking the position of provincial governor to be a resident of the province for at least one year before the election.

There is no hard and fast rule to determine a candidate's compliance with residency requirement since the question of residence is a question of intention.

On the other hand, when he came to the Philippines in November 2008 to live with his brother in Zamboanga Sibugay, it is evident that Jalosjos did so with intent to change his domicile for good.

By his acts, Jalosjos forfeited his legal right to live in Australia, clearly proving that he gave up his domicile there.

And he has since lived nowhere else except in Ipil, Zamboanga Sibugay.

To hold that Jalosjos has not establish a new domicile in Zamboanga Sibugay despite the loss of his domicile of origin (Quezon City) and his domicile of choice and by operation of law (Australia) would violate the settled maxim that a man must have a domicile or residence somewhere.

What matters is that Jalosjos has proved two things: actual physical presence in Ipil and an intention of making it his domicile.

Jalosjos won and was proclaimed winner in the 2010 gubernatorial race for Zamboanga Sibugay.

WHEREFORE, the Court GRANTS the petition and SETS ASIDE the Resolution of the COMELEC Second Division dated February 11, 2010 and the Resolution of the COMELEC En Banc dated May 4, 2010 that disqualified petitioner Rommel Jalosjos from seeking election as Governor of Zamboanga Sibugay.

